---
layout: post
category: Life
title: Daily ADHD
---

<meta property="og:image" content="http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/sciencenotfiction/files/2011/03/Braaaains.jpg"/>

I was motivated to write this text for 3 reasons:

1. It's something that bothers me at the moment.
2. A <a href="http://www.campograndenews.com.br/lado-b/faz-bem/depressao-nao-e-frescura-e-so-se-cura-com-diagnostico-remedio-e-terapia">post</a> about the importance that should be given to depression.
3. And tweets:
<center>
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">When I worked at a startup I&#39;d go in at 5am so I could get 5 hours of work in before the first foosball game started <a href="https://t.co/QCk310Glg0">https://t.co/QCk310Glg0</a></p>&mdash; Rebecca Slatkin (@RebeccaSlatkin) <a href="https://twitter.com/RebeccaSlatkin/status/765652886797819905">August 16, 2016</a></blockquote> <script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Startup culture and office environments create challenges for workers with ADHD: <a href="https://t.co/SvKTaHdAQw">https://t.co/SvKTaHdAQw</a></p>&mdash; shanley (@shanley) <a href="https://twitter.com/shanley/status/765627245616521219">August 16, 2016</a></blockquote> <script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</center>

<br/>

I'd like to start this text by reporting that **the worst feeling in the world is the anger mixed with disappointment of losing a fight against yourself**!

Mental illnesses, even today, still need to be accepted and understood by people. Many myths, prejudices, and disbeliefs surround this real problem, causing those who suffer to hide or not accept the diagnosis, using terms like "it's just a phase" as a crutch to carry on with life.

I have <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attention_deficit_disorder">ADHD-PI</a>. And yes, diagnosed, needing medication and everything! No, it's not a phase and I don't say this because it's "trendy" to have some illness nowadays! And no, it's not just a simple excuse!

Those who watch "The Big Bang Theory" don't understand how painful it is to have OCD, be unable to talk to another person, or have attention deficit. It's not this cute and funny thing that's portrayed in the series. Especially because, in many cases, the problem doesn't come alone and, over time, ends up gaining new complications.

To be more "realistic," I'll report what I know/lived and try to place it in the context of technology (what I live daily):

ADHD is a disease characterized by inattention and impulsivity. Since 2000 it's been categorized into 3 types: Predominantly inattentive (ADHD-PI), predominantly hyperactive, and, the worst, without predominance.

It's usually diagnosed in childhood, so much so that the NHS website (British public health system) <a href="http://www.nhs.uk/conditions/Attention-deficit-hyperactivity-disorder/Pages/Introduction.aspx">represents it as a childhood disease</a>, placing only a note about how adults can survive with the disease. With this, the prejudice that children are naturally active and inattentive means that people are not properly diagnosed, increases denial, and generates adults who suffer daily without having a real idea of the cause.

In crisis periods, the daily life of those who suffer or live with this disease is not easy:

* Dirty clothes pile up, not out of laziness or carelessness, but simply because washing them is a repetitive activity. In fact, there are occasions where the person opens the washing machine, puts half the clothes in, and forgets to finish what they were doing.
* Plate of food, set aside to cool.
* Clothes iron forgotten on, as well as stove, oven, etc.
* Burned steaks setting off the smoke alarm with their smoke.
* House/apartment/car/company doors left unlocked after the person leaves.
* Keys left in the door or inside the car.
* Backpacks, wallets, and jackets left inside buses/trains/restaurants.
* Medications opened and not consumed.
* Difficulty remembering names and dates at certain times.
* Difficulty maintaining superficial conversation.
* Having to watch/read several times a book, movie, or listen to a podcast to absorb content.

It's recommended that a person with very strong ADHD, in times of crisis, not be alone and seek someone who can help them remember medication and protect them from routine things, like making lunch or dinner, and create routines to be able to learn something or complete some task.

And it's not just personal life that's affected, professional life is highly impacted, in times of crisis and even in "normal" moments. The person starts to be seen as careless because of the long moments of procrastination, unfinished activities, missed meetings, and simple bugs left in the code.

In the text linked in one of the tweets I placed at the beginning, the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impostor_syndrome">impostor syndrome</a> is mentioned, a thought that's constant in the lives of those who fight against ADHD, for the simple fact that no matter how competent the person is, they will delay deliveries, let small errors go unnoticed, and be unable to finish projects, especially personal projects where management is 100% individual.

An example: In an attempt to improve a feature of an app where I work, I decided to study and implement a basic machine learning system to chain and balance operations on images using OpenGL, an exciting and complicated idea. But the project ended up not being finished yet, because after having 98% of the algorithm ready and tested, all that remained was creating a quadrilateral selection process. Although this is one of the simplest parts of the system, it's a repetitive task and, therefore, something ABSURDLY difficult for me to finish!

And that's where other problems arise, like depression and anxiety.

Maybe you've seen someone like this, that person who has the karma of ⌘+Tab (or Alt+Tab for non-Mac users). Always switching applications without stopping at any, accessing a page they just left, and constantly <i><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daydream">day dreaming</a></i> and (a parameter quite difficult to identify in the technology field) constantly drinking coffee or something with caffeine, since this chemical component helps balance hormones and provide a bit more equilibrium.

The corporate environment expects the person to be sociable, even if this is absurdly difficult for them. We have constant meetings, shared offices, foosball tables, and various other elements that make concentration difficult. An article on the Gamasutra website talks about <a href="http://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/190891/programmer_interrupted.php">how a programmer is affected by interruptions</a> and, believe me, this is the biggest problem we have to face!

Now I return to the sentence I placed at the beginning of the text, it's horrible to have to, daily, fight against yourself and, many times, lose! It's not something funny or that you cheerfully tell friends to justify a banal action! And it's something that companies and people aren't ready to understand and accept that, just like wheelchairs, it's something that affects the person, limits them, and needs to be considered in daily life.

After all, when we wake up, we know we'll have to face our daily ADHD.
