---
language: en
category: Life
title: Quick thought - WWDC/Alt 2016
---

<center><blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Thank you <a href="https://twitter.com/Microsoft">@Microsoft</a> for the awesome after party! <a href="https://t.co/s0ihOsvy4o">pic.twitter.com/s0ihOsvy4o</a></p>&mdash; AltConf (@AltConference) <a href="https://twitter.com/AltConference/status/743621272307826688">June 17, 2016</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script></center>

Once again I went to San Francisco to participate (initially) in [AltConf](http://altconf.com). This year was a bit different: Besides the 12-hour direct flight, seeing Brazilian colleagues/friends again was different and I traveled with several coworkers. It was a different experience from previous trips to SF.

As always, the conferences managed to make me hate my personality! I'm absurdly introverted and, therefore, don't take 100% advantage of the opportunities given to me to build new friendships/contacts. And at the end of the day, I'm left with the feeling that I don't dedicate myself/study as I should, being merely mediocre in my career.

But this text being published demonstrates the other side of conferences: It motivates me to question and produce. To try to understand where I'm going wrong and look for the best way to solve it.

I went to/stayed more at WWDC and roaming around the city than at Alt. So I missed some very good talks, which I'll have to watch online when the videos are available.

However, I had the opportunity to talk with some Apple engineers about problems/implementations I'm doing in my day-to-day and calm down knowing that the problems I'm facing are related to bugs in the APIs and not in my code.

I left the US thinking it was a great and productive week, but at the same time, with the feeling that it wasn't a 100% week.

On the non-technical side: I missed some great opportunities to be with the Brazilian folks and should have prepared to run more around the city. But it was great to go out for drinks/chat with coworkers and to sit, drink, and talk with friends I hadn't seen in a long time.

I look forward eagerly to next year.
