---
language: en
category: Life
title: 🎄 2015
---
# 🎄 2015

For years, my New Year's resolutions have amounted to:

`
Goals for year n:
Prepare goals for year n+1
`

I never planned anything more than a month ahead. To be honest, I never planned anything in my life.

I believe the main factors for this (among many) are: my lack of ambition, detachment from many things, and the security I have in family and friends.

I've always had the freedom to take risks and do what I thought I wanted to do (something I didn't take advantage of as I should have), knowing that if something went wrong, I would have friendly shoulders to turn to. This allowed me to try various things, like music, theatre, electronics, game development, etc. As well as various trips and job changes. ^^

*This, however, did not exclude my "shyness" and the profile categorized by many as introverted, which accompanies me.*



## What changed in 2015
---

As the ad would say, everything changed. 2015 was a year where my life took a big turn.

The main one happened like everything else in my life, with the support of family and friends: I moved to London, where I got a job at [Future Workshops](http://futureworkshops.com/). I admit that the decision to take this step was not easy (in fact, I had been postponing this step for a long time).

What made me look at, consider, and accept this change was the year 2015. This year, more trips, where I talked with 3 companies outside Brazil about the possibility of leaving the country. This, added to the economic situation of the country, made me decide.

I received criticism for this decision from a few people and most were happy that I took this step, always reminding me that homesickness would be strong, and indeed, it weighs heavily. DAILY (but that will be a topic for another day)!



## And Christmas?
---

It was a very busy, rushed year. So, as always, I didn't think, I just went through it doing what makes me comfortable and happy. It was the Christmas period that caught me by surprise, mainly for three reasons:

1. I arrived at the end of the year with some money to spend.
2. I would have to take 7 days off before the end of the year.
3. I decided to visit the county where my grandfather was born.

I decided to take a small trip through multiple cities in Spain (Manilva, Málaga, Madrid and, later added, Barcelona). As always, staying in hostels and walking a lot around the city.

There, several times, I was mistaken for a native and people would come ask me questions about the city and daily life in Spanish, something that was VERY difficult, more than it should have been.

And, at the end of the trip, I didn't have mom to see and tell how it went (by phone it's not the same thing).

I tried to explain here what made me rethink how I'm facing my life. And I don't know if I was successful, but it doesn't matter.

Finally, I thought, rethought, and fulfilled the 2015 resolutions:



## Goals for 2016
---

* Learn basic Spanish and practice understanding/speaking the language, to be able to make basic communications.
* Learn/practice riding a bicycle to be able to use it, at least, as a form of entertainment.
* Run at least one 5K race, one 10K, and one +10K
* Do a health check-up and readjust my diet to get below 80 kg.
* Look for a new apartment.
* Realign an investment and savings plan that consumes between 5% and 15% of net salary.
* Study a technology in depth, prepare and post content related to that technology.
